Hi Mukesh,

I have just read your research statement. A few words of feedback that are entirely subjective:

From the perspective of the person that reads the statement (the hiring committee), the main question that they want answered are roughly

(i) How does this person fit into the currently existing groups, where are overlaps, and what new aspects to they bring?
(ii) What is the main motivation that drives this person’s research agenda, and what are their long term aspirations?
(iii) How well is this person set up to actually carry out the research agenda?

And there’s (at least) one implicit, cross-cutting aspect:

(iv) Can this person clearly communicate their research?

In that sense, it is usually good to structure the narrative not chronologically, but in terms of the information that the reader would like to extract. ‘Inverted Pyramid’ is often a useful strategy.

For the teaching statement, I guess the things that one wants to convey are:

(a) a proactive engagement with the eduction (e.g. innovative ideas)
(b) a structured and thoughtful approach (e.g through continuous evaluation and improvement)
(c) awareness of the broader education goals (e.g. how education activities embed into the curriculum)

The cross cutting aspect here is:

(d) To demonstrate that you have passion and enthusiasm that will motivate the students and take them along.

This is a much more personal aspect, but in general it is a good idea to benchmark a statement against the goals after writing, to see whether one has actually achieved the goals that the statement is to achieve. Reflection on teaching and benchmarking is often something that people are looking for.

The points above are clearly my personal take on this, together with some experience on how these things are read and interpreted within hiring / promotion committees.

Also, are there any (maybe early) success stories or activities that relate to your time in Melbourne? I am aware that it’s only been a small number of months, but it would be good if I could say something in my letter.

All the best,

Dirk.
